yar me salty scallywags and welcome to
another edition of tiny Yeller house
where today we're taking this your puppy
to the high seas or more so the lowly
shhhhh filled scummy very bad smelling
pond behind me good thing I had all my
shots
Oh
i'm derek dietrichson this time around
for tiny yellow house would make
magazine we're building a one sheet
plywood boat that i've dubbed the blue
crab it can aid the blue crap or the SS
hunkajunk it's all good it's built out
of one sheet of plywood as I mentioned
in very few tools are needed and
materials all in all the cost is about
fifty bucks
give or take now she ain't so party but
she floats at least we hope so the blue
crab here material-wise what you're
going to need and Michael waste of time
I'm telling you just look at the screen
below me will save some valuable time
that you can utilize towards drinking
your favorite beverage insert blank
actually we forgot one thing materialize
this right here
what you want to do first step go to the
hardware store or your box store buy one
sheet of plywood 3/8 and width or a
half-inch have them cut it for you want
one strip that's one foot another one
foot the last one two feet that will be
the bottom of your boat basically you're
taking these sides cutting out freeform
draw one and trace one you're cutting
out a bow for the boat and then from
there you're attacking it together with
some simple Brad's two inches in length
then you're going to clock the living
heck out of this thing I'm talking to
three tubes of clock at every seam
inside and outside after you've nailed
the pieces all together now this boats
simple to build but take several days
where between each phase of caulking
later painting you have to leave the
boat alone for day or two to dry come
back to it some other time finish the
next step now as for the caulking you
want to use silicone caulk only I repeat
silicone caulk only not to say it again
when you're putting silicone caulk in
these gaps exterior in interior after
you've tacked the boat together sides
sandwiching the floor you want to press
the the beads o'clock into the gaps
further sealing the boat now with the
silicone caulk you dip your finger and a
little dish detergent any will do even
the generic stuff and just use your
finger after that to smooth it down the
dish detergent keeps the caulk from
sticking to your fingers which is just a
total nightmare it take
like a week to get off your hands you
look like an extra from the movie Swamp
Thing afterwards take my word for it as
for the the trim work here not necessary
I just got some batten strips from the
old box to our state of up to try to
make it look a little fancier which I
failed miserably provides a better
grabbing surface here you know to rest
your fishing pole your oars whatever
underneath the ugliest part of the boat
here's the window we fitted in it's
simply silicone caulk in several spiral
layers that we later you know we smush a
piece of Plexiglas or stereo glass you
find in the side of the road any will do
thicker the better on the bottom it's a
viewing window these little keels here
to help you keep going straight are made
out of two by threes they've been
screwed into the bottom and stuck
together with liquid nails I got some
oops
latex paint straight latex paint that
works as a sealant to a certain degree
as well you can have to reapply paint
probably every two years or so but I
just slapped like four coats on this to
additionally protect the wood plywood
delaminates easily in water this kind of
gives it some longevity
now deke disclaimer truth it actually is
one additional board in addition to the
sheet a full sheet of plywood you can
make this I don't want you to apply with
I just want it to be a little longer so
I had to scrap it on the side of the
road I threw it in the back has the
stern there's a fold up seat here as
well this clunky looking device
as for this boat in shelter mode its
Luci basement one designs my book humble
home simple shacks growing up in the Boy
Scouts far too many times in canoe trips
I'd find myself stuck in the rain hiding
out under canoe we had to pull up
onshore many many times I figured enough
is enough so I made the seat
transformable into a kickstand that
makes us boat into a shelter complete
with a skylight why not now the true
spirit of redneck thrift and recycling
and the way over here to the chute
didn't have a kayak paddle did enough
time to buy one found some crap on the
side of the road and we're going to make
the world's worst kayak battle
now that we have our paddle all set and
our lifejacket our PFD if you will it's
time to see if this boat seaworthy or
scum pond worthy it's gonna be
interesting getting my workout to make
magazine mental note
next time find a pond closer to where
I'm parking and one that's not for
leeches and looks like you know what
woof should I eat my Wheaties
ah
his paddle stinks I'm getting a little
bit wet but I'm moving it's kind of Klu
seeing the water and the lily pads and
everything else underneath the Mafia
bodies whisked by through this window
moves pretty smoothly I have to say for
a boat built out of plywood it's like
being a redneck tilt-a-whirl yeah
sister's rad for free what I'm missing
is beer fishing pole music sunblock - me
being one of the lighter people ever
I'm a Casper the ghost looks like Keith
David by the way if you want to secure
additional floatation dollar-store pool
noodle these two eye hooks right here
your string a rope through them secure
this to the side strap to the side it
performs as a bumper as well when you're
pulling into a dock so you don't scratch
up your pristine oh so posh paint job
here nobody who's the pool rule works
well for swatting flies as well I think
I actually got that one
thank you guys for watching again i'm
derek dietrichson for tiny yellow house
TV and make magazine and we will see you
next time and drier circumstances
perhaps
you